In common usage, randomness is the apparent or actual lack of pattern or predictability in events. A random sequence of events, symbols or steps often has no order and does not follow an intelligible pattern or combination. Individual random events are, by definition, unpredictable, but if the probability distribution is known, the frequency of different outcomes over repeated events (or "trials") is predictable. For example, when throwing two dice, the outcome of any particular roll is unpredictable, but a sum of 7 will tend to occur twice as often as 4. In this view, randomness is not haphazardness; it is a measure of uncertainty of an outcome. Randomness applies to concepts of chance, probability, and information entropy. The fields of mathematics, probability, and statistics use formal definitions of randomness. In statistics, a random variable is an assignment of a numerical value to each possible outcome of an event space. This association facilitates the identification and the calculation of probabilities of the events. Random variables can appear in random sequences. A random process is a sequence of random variables whose outcomes do not follow a deterministic pattern, but follow an evolution described by probability distributions. These and other constructs are extremely useful in probability theory and the various applications of randomness. Randomness is most often used in statistics to signify well-defined statistical properties. Monte Carlo methods, which rely on random input (such as from random number generators or pseudorandom number generators), are important techniques in science, particularly in the field of computational science. By analogy, quasi-Monte Carlo methods use quasi-random number generators. Random selection, when narrowly associated with a simple random sample, is a method of selecting items (often called units) from a population where the probability of choosing a specific item is the proportion of those items in the population. For example, with a bowl containing just 10 red marbles and 90 blue marbles, a random selection mechanism would choose a red marble with probability 1/10. Note that a random selection mechanism that selected 10 marbles from this bowl would not necessarily result in 1 red and 9 blue. In situations where a population consists of items that are distinguishable, a random selection mechanism requires equal probabilities for any item to be chosen. That is, if the selection process is such that each member of a population, say research subjects, has the same probability of being chosen, then we can say the selection process is random.According to Ramsey theory, pure randomness is impossible, especially for large structures. Mathematician Theodore Motzkin suggested that "while disorder is more probable in general, complete disorder is impossible". Misunderstanding this can lead to numerous conspiracy theories. Cristian S. Calude stated that "given the impossibility of true randomness, the effort is directed towards studying degrees of randomness". It can be proven that there is infinite hierarchy (in terms of quality or strength) of forms of randomness.A priori ("from the earlier") and a posteriori ("from the later") are Latin phrases used in philosophy to distinguish types of knowledge, justification, or argument by their reliance on empirical evidence or experience. A priori knowledge is independent from current experience (e.g., as part of a new study). Examples include mathematics, tautologies, and deduction from pure reason. A posteriori knowledge depends on empirical evidence. Examples include most fields of science and aspects of personal knowledge. The terms originate from the analytic methods found in Organon, a collection of works by Aristotle. Prior analytics (a priori) is about deductive logic, which comes from definitions and first principles. Posterior analytics (a posteriori) is about inductive logic, which comes from observational evidence. Both terms appear in Euclid's Elements and were popularized by Immanuel Kant's Critique of Pure Reason, an influential work in the history of philosophy. Both terms are primarily used as modifiers to the noun "knowledge" (i.e. "a priori knowledge"). A priori can be used to modify other nouns such as "truth". Philosophers may use apriority, apriorist, and aprioricity as nouns referring to the quality of being a priori.A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge (commonly called Treatise) is a 1710 work, in English, by Irish Empiricist philosopher George Berkeley.  This book largely seeks to refute the claims made by Berkeley's contemporary John Locke about the nature of human perception.  Whilst, like all the Empiricist philosophers, both Locke and Berkeley agreed that we are having experiences, regardless of whether material objects exist, Berkeley sought to prove that the outside world (the world which causes the ideas one has within one's mind) is also composed solely of ideas. Berkeley did this by suggesting that "Ideas can only resemble Ideas" – the mental ideas that we possess can only resemble other ideas (not material objects) and thus the external world consists not of physical form, but rather of ideas.  This world is (or, at least, was) given logic and regularity by some other force, which Berkeley concludes is God.A priori ("from the earlier") and a posteriori ("from the later") are Latin phrases used in philosophy to distinguish types of knowledge, justification, or argument by their reliance on empirical evidence or experience. A priori knowledge is independent from current experience (e.g., as part of a new study). Examples include mathematics, tautologies, and deduction from pure reason. A posteriori knowledge depends on empirical evidence. Examples include most fields of science and aspects of personal knowledge. The terms originate from the analytic methods found in Organon, a collection of works by Aristotle. Prior analytics (a priori) is about deductive logic, which comes from definitions and first principles. Posterior analytics (a posteriori) is about inductive logic, which comes from observational evidence. Both terms appear in Euclid's Elements and were popularized by Immanuel Kant's Critique of Pure Reason, an influential work in the history of philosophy. Both terms are primarily used as modifiers to the noun "knowledge" (i.e. "a priori knowledge"). A priori can be used to modify other nouns such as "truth". Philosophers may use apriority, apriorist, and aprioricity as nouns referring to the quality of being a priori.A priori ("from the earlier") and a posteriori ("from the later") are Latin phrases used in philosophy to distinguish types of knowledge, justification, or argument by their reliance on empirical evidence or experience. A priori knowledge is independent from current experience (e.g., as part of a new study). Examples include mathematics, tautologies, and deduction from pure reason. A posteriori knowledge depends on empirical evidence. Examples include most fields of science and aspects of personal knowledge. The terms originate from the analytic methods found in Organon, a collection of works by Aristotle. Prior analytics (a priori) is about deductive logic, which comes from definitions and first principles. Posterior analytics (a posteriori) is about inductive logic, which comes from observational evidence. Both terms appear in Euclid's Elements and were popularized by Immanuel Kant's Critique of Pure Reason, an influential work in the history of philosophy. Both terms are primarily used as modifiers to the noun "knowledge" (i.e. "a priori knowledge"). A priori can be used to modify other nouns such as "truth". Philosophers may use apriority, apriorist, and aprioricity as nouns referring to the quality of being a priori.A Posteriori is the sixth studio album by German musical project Enigma, released on 22 September 2006 by Virgin Records. In December 2006, the album was nominated for Best New Age Album at the 2007 Grammy Awards.While the previous album, Voyageur, contained minimal amounts of the project's signature sounds, A Posteriori only contains the signature "Enigma horn" (a foghorn) during the opening minute of the album, and even then it is a fleeting glimpse. Coupled with the album's subject matter of the collision of the Milky Way and Andromeda galaxies, A Posteriori is, compared to earlier releases, stark and foreboding.15 Years After is a box set by the musical project Enigma. It was released by Virgin Germany on 9 December 2005. The box set contains eight discs, five of them original studio albums created from 1990 to 2003, two DVDs, and a bonus CD of Enigma's songs covered by Rollo Armstrong. As the title suggests, the box set celebrates the fifteen years since the release of Enigma's first single, "Sadeness (Part I)". The album cover was taken from Lady with an Ermine, a 1490 painting by Leonardo da Vinci. The box set packaging and photography was done by Dirk Rudolph, while artwork direction and original designs were created by Johann Zambryski, a long-time designer of Enigma artworks. Originally, the box set was sold at €128, and this raised a stir with fans of the project, since the discs were not remastered, unlike the compilation album Love Sensuality Devotion: The Greatest Hits but were instead fitted with Copy Control. A new single, "Hello and Welcome" (from the unreleased sixth album A Posteriori) and The Dusted Variations disc also received mixed responses from the fans, who questioned the release of the album. Additionally, the music video for "Out from the Deep", which was dropped from the Remember the Future DVD without an apparent reason, was still absent in this re-release, and despite the box set being 12-inch vinyl-sized, there was little information about the history of the project within the booklet, apart from credits and a press release inside. Later on, the price of the box set dropped to €92.99 and on 30 November 2005, the producer and creator of Enigma, Michael Cretu personally visited the EMI factory in Uden, Netherlands to sign a thousand copies of the box set. The thousand signed copies had Cretu's initials ("MC") signed with a silver marker. While signed copies of Enigma's albums are extremely rare, the autographed version of the box set was still available for purchase at Amazon.de half a year after its release. Also within the box set was a code that enabled owners to download the music videos for "Voyageur" and "Boum-Boum" by typing it in a special section within Enigma's official website.A.R.T. Studios was the private music studio of music producer Michael Cretu, located in his mansion in the hills of Ibiza, Spain. In May 2009 the mansion together with the studio were demolished. The studio itself was used by Cretu until 2005, when he moved to a mobile computerized system "Alchemist" and from 2010 a new system named "Merlin". This studio was designed and built by Gunter Wagner and Bernd Steber (Sydney/Australia) and was used in the recording of all of Cretu's productions (Enigma, Sandra, Trance Atlantic Air Waves).Aye Musht-E-Khaak (Urdu: اے مُشتِ خاک, lit. 'Oh Handful of Dust') is a Pakistani television series produced by Abdullah Kadwani and Asad Qureshi under banner 7th Sky Entertainment, directed by Aehsun Talish. The serial airs on Geo Entertainment. Maha Malik is the writer of this drama. It features Feroze Khan and Sana Javed in leading roles in their fourth project together with Asad Siddiqui, Iffat Rahim and Danial Afzal Khan in prominent roles.1080i (also known as Full HD or BT.709) is a combination of frame resolution and scan type. 1080i is used in high-definition television (HDTV) and high-definition video. The number "1080" refers to the number of horizontal lines on the screen. The "i" is an abbreviation for "interlaced"; this indicates that only the odd lines, then the even lines of each frame (each image called a video field) are drawn alternately, so that only half the number of actual image frames are used to produce video. A related display resolution is 1080p, which also has 1080 lines of resolution; the "p" refers to progressive scan, which indicates that the lines of resolution for each frame are "drawn" on the screen in sequence. The term assumes a widescreen aspect ratio of 16:9 (a rectangular TV that is wider than it is tall), so the 1080 lines of vertical resolution implies 1920 columns of horizontal resolution, or 1920 pixels × 1080 lines. A  1920 pixels × 1080 lines screen has a total of 2.1 megapixels (2.1 million pixels) and a temporal resolution of 50 or 60 interlaced fields per second. This format is used in the SMPTE 292M standard. The choice of 1080 lines originates with Charles Poynton, who in the early 1990s pushed for "square pixels" to be used in HD video formats.1080p (1920×1080 progressively displayed pixels; also known as Full HD or FHD, and BT.709) is a set of HDTV high-definition video modes characterized by 1,920 pixels displayed across the screen horizontally and 1,080 pixels down the screen vertically; the p stands for progressive scan, i.e. non-interlaced. The term usually assumes a widescreen aspect ratio of 16:9, implying a resolution of 2.1 megapixels. It is often marketed as Full HD or FHD, to contrast 1080p with 720p resolution screens. Although 1080p is sometimes informally referred to as 2K, these terms reflect two distinct technical standards, with differences including resolution and aspect ratio. 1080p video signals are supported by ATSC standards in the United States and DVB standards in Europe. Applications of the 1080p standard include television broadcasts, Blu-ray Discs, smartphones, Internet content such as YouTube videos and Netflix TV shows and movies, consumer-grade televisions and projectors, computer monitors and video game consoles. Small camcorders, smartphones and digital cameras can capture still and moving images in 1080p resolution.10K resolution is any of a number of horizontal display resolutions of around ten-thousand pixels, usually double that of 5K resolutions: 9,600 or 10,240 pixels. Unlike 4K and 8K, it is not part of UHDTV broadcast standards. The first devices available featured ultra-wide "21:9" screens with the vertical resolution of 8K, which has a native 16:9 aspect ratio.1440p is a family of video display resolutions that have a vertical resolution of 1440 pixels. The p stands for progressive scan, i.e. non-interlaced. The 1440 pixel vertical resolution is double the vertical resolution of 720p, and one-third (about 33.3%) more than 1080p. QHD (Quad HD) or WQHD (Wide Quad HD) is the designation for a commonly used display resolution of 2560 × 1440 pixels in a 16:9 aspect ratio. As a graphics display resolution between 1080p and 4K, Quad HD is regularly used in smartphone displays, and for computer and console gaming.4K resolution refers to a horizontal display resolution of approximately 4,000 pixels. Digital television and digital cinematography commonly use several different 4K resolutions. In television and consumer media, 3840 × 2160 (4K UHD) is the dominant 4K standard, whereas the movie projection industry uses 4096 × 2160 (DCI 4K). The 4K television market share increased as prices fell dramatically during 2014 and 2015.16K resolution is a display resolution with approximately 16,000 pixels horizontally. The most commonly discussed 16K resolution is 15360 × 8640, which doubles the pixel count of 8K UHD in each dimension, for a total of four times as many pixels. This resolution has 132.7 megapixels, 16 times as many pixels as 4K resolution and 64 times as many pixels as 1080p resolution. As of June 2022, 16K resolutions can be run using multi-monitor setups with AMD Eyefinity or Nvidia Surround.2K resolution is a generic term for display devices or content having horizontal resolution of approximately 2,000 pixels. In the movie projection industry, Digital Cinema Initiatives is the dominant standard for 2K output and defines 2K resolution as 2048 × 1080. For television and consumer media, 1920 × 1080 is the most common 2K resolution, but this is normally referred to as 1080p.180-line is an early electronic television system. It was used in Germany after March 22, 1935, using telecine transmission of film, intermediate film system, or cameras using the Nipkow disk. Simultaneously, fully electronic transmissions using cameras based on the iconoscope began on January 15, 1936 with a definition of 375-lines. The Berlin Summer Olympic Games were televised, using both closed-circuit 375-line fully electronic iconoscope-based cameras and 180 lines intermediate film cameras transmitting to Berlin, Hamburg, Munich, Nuremberg and Bayreuth via  special Reichspost long distance cables in August 1936. In Berlin, twenty-eight public 180-line television rooms were opened for anybody who did not own a television set. System details: Some TV sets for this system were available, like the French Grammont models, Telefunken FE II and FE III or Fernseh TischmodellAfter February 1937 both 180 and 375-line systems were replaced by a superior 441-line system.The 1936 Summer Olympics (German: Olympische Sommerspiele 1936), officially known as the Games of the XI Olympiad (German: Spiele der XI. Olympiade) and commonly known as Berlin 1936 or the Nazi Olympics, were an international multi-sport event held from 1 to 16 August 1936 in Berlin, Germany. Berlin won the bid to host the Games over Barcelona at the 29th IOC Session on 26 April 1931. The 1936 Games marked the second and most recent time the International Olympic Committee gathered to vote in a city that was bidding to host those Games. Later rule modifications forbade cities hosting the bid vote from being awarded the games. To outdo the 1932 Los Angeles Games, Reich Führer Adolf Hitler had a new 100,000-seat track and field stadium built, as well as six gymnasiums and other smaller arenas. The Games were the first to be televised, with radio broadcasts reaching 41 countries. Filmmaker Leni Riefenstahl was commissioned by the German Olympic Committee to film the Games for $7 million. Her film, titled Olympia, pioneered many of the techniques now common in the filming of sports. Hitler saw the 1936 Games as an opportunity to promote his government and ideals of racial supremacy and antisemitism, and the official Nazi Party paper, the Völkischer Beobachter, wrote in the strongest terms that Jews should not be allowed to participate in the Games. German Jewish athletes were barred or prevented from taking part in the Games by a variety of methods, although some women swimmers from the Jewish sports club Hakoah Vienna did participate. Jewish athletes from other countries were said to have been side-lined to avoid offending the Nazi regime.Total ticket revenues were 7.5 million Reichsmark, generating a profit of over one million R.M. The official budget did not include outlays by the city of Berlin (which issued an itemized report detailing its costs of 16.5 million R.M.) or outlays of the German national government (which did not make its costs public, but is estimated to have spent US$30 million).Jesse Owens of the United States won four gold medals in the sprint and long jump events, and became the most successful athlete to compete in Berlin, while Germany was the most successful country overall with 89 medals total, with the United States coming in second with 56 medals. These were the final Olympic Games under the presidency of Henri de Baillet-Latour and the final Games for 12 years due to the disruption of the Second World War. The next Olympic Games were held in 1948 (the Winter Games in St. Moritz, Switzerland and then the Summer Games in London, England).The 1896 Summer Olympics (Greek: Θερινοί Ολυμπιακοί Αγώνες 1896, romanized: Therinoí Olympiakoí Agónes 1896), officially known as the Games of the I Olympiad (Greek: Αγώνες της 1ης Ολυμπιάδας, romanized: Agónes tis 1is Olympiádas) and commonly known as Athens 1896 (Greek: Αθήνα 1896), was the first international Olympic Games held in modern history. Organised by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), which had been created by French aristocrat Pierre de Coubertin, it was held in Athens, Greece, from 6 to 15 April 1896.Fourteen nations (according to the IOC, though the number is subject to interpretation) and 241 athletes (all males; this number is also disputed) took part in the games. Participants were all European, or living in Europe, with the exception of the United States team. Over 65% of the competing athletes were Greek. Winners were given a silver medal, while runners-up received a copper medal. Retroactively, the IOC has converted these to gold and silver, and awarded bronze medals to third placed athletes. Ten of the 14 participating nations earned medals. The United States won the most gold medals, 11, while host nation Greece won the most medals overall, 47. The highlight for the Greeks was the marathon victory by their compatriot Spyridon Louis. The most successful competitor was German wrestler and gymnast Carl Schuhmann, who won four events. Athens had been unanimously chosen to stage the inaugural modern Games during a congress organised by Coubertin in Paris on 23 June 1894, during which the IOC was also created, because Greece was the birthplace of the Ancient Olympic Games. The main venue was the Panathenaic Stadium, where athletics and wrestling took place; other venues included the Neo Phaliron Velodrome for cycling, and the Zappeion for fencing. The opening ceremony was held in the Panathenaic Stadium on 6 April, during which most of the competing athletes were aligned on the infield, grouped by nation. After a speech by the president of the organising committee, Crown Prince Constantine, his father officially opened the Games. Afterwards, nine bands and 150 choir singers performed an Olympic Hymn, composed by Spyridon Samaras, with words by poet Kostis Palamas. The 1896 Olympics were regarded as a great success. The Games had the largest international participation of any sporting event to that date. The Panathenaic Stadium overflowed with the largest crowd ever to watch a sporting event. After the Games, Coubertin and the IOC were petitioned by several prominent figures, including Greece's King George and some of the American competitors in Athens, to hold all the following Games in Athens. However, the 1900 Summer Olympics were already planned for Paris and, except for the Intercalated Games of 1906, the Olympics did not return to Greece until the 2004 Summer Olympics, 108 years later.The 1896 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the I Olympiad, were a summer multi-sport event held in Athens, the capital of Greece, from 6 to 15 April 1896, and were the first Olympic Games of the Modern era. A total of 241 athletes from 14 nations participated in 43 events in nine sports at these games.Ten of the fourteen participating nations earned medals, in addition to three medals won by mixed teams, i.e. teams made up of athletes from multiple nations. The United States won the most gold medals (11) with 14 athletes participating, while host nation, Greece with 169 athletes participating, won the most medals overall (47) as well as the most silver (18) and bronze (19) medals, finishing with one less gold medal than the United States, having 155 athletes more than the US.In the early Olympic Games, several team events were contested by athletes from multiple nations. Retroactively, the IOC created the designation "Mixed team" (with the country code ZZX) to refer to these group of athletes. Some athletes won medals both individually and as part of a mixed team, so these medals are tabulated under different nations in the official counts. Dionysios Kasdaglis, an athlete of Greek origins living in Alexandria, Egypt, is listed by the IOC as Greek during both his competition in the singles tennis competition and the doubles tennis competition along with his teammate, the Greek athlete Demetrios Petrokokkinos.During these inaugural Olympics, winners were given a silver medal and an olive branch, while runners-up received a copper medal and a laurel branch. The IOC has retroactively assigned gold, silver and bronze medals to the three best placed athletes in each event to comport with more recent traditions. Three ties resulted in medals being shared between athletes, increasing the medal count of various nations. These include ties between Francis Lane of the United States and Alajos Szokolyi of Hungary, for the third place in the 100 metres; between Evangelos Damaskos and Ioannis Theodoropoulos of Greece in the pole vault; and between Konstantinos Paspatis of Greece and Momcsilló Tapavicza of Hungary, in singles tennis. In addition, bronze medals were not awarded in a number of events where there was no third-place finisher.The 1900 Summer Olympics were held in Paris, France, from May 14 to October 28, 1900, as part of the 1900 World's Fair.  A total of 997 athletes representing 24 nations participated in 95 events in 19 sports at these games. Women competed in the Olympics for the first time during the 1900 games. 21 of the 24 participating nations earned medals, in addition to 19 medals won by teams made up of athletes from multiple nations. The host nation of France flooded the field, comprising over 72% of all the athletes (720 of the 997); given this, America dominated athletically, winning the second-most gold (19), silver (14), and bronze (15) medals, while fielding 75 athletes.In the early Olympic Games, several team events were contested by athletes from multiple nations. Retroactively, the IOC created the designation Mixed team (with the country code ZZX) to refer to these groups of athletes. During the 1900 games, athletes participating in mixed teams won medals in athletics, cricket, football, polo, rowing, rugby, sailing, tennis, tug of war, and water polo.The 1900 Olympics is unique in being the only Olympic Games to feature rectangular medals, which were designed by Frédérique Vernon. Gilt silver medals were awarded for 1st place in shooting, lifesaving, automobile racing and gymnastics. Whilst 2nd place silver medals were awarded in shooting, rowing, yachting, tennis, gymnastics, sabre, fencing, equestrian and athletics. With 3rd place bronze medals being awarded in gymnastics, firefighting and shooting. In many sports, however, medals were not awarded. With most of the listed prizes were cups and other similar trophies.The International Olympic Committee has retrospectively assigned gold, silver, and bronze medals to competitors who earned first, second, and third-place finishes in order to bring early Olympics in line with current awards.The 1900 Summer Olympics (French: Jeux olympiques d'été de 1900), today officially known as the Games of the II Olympiad (Jeux de la IIe olympiade) and also known as Paris 1900, were an international multi-sport event that took place in Paris, France, from 14 May to 28 October 1900. No opening or closing ceremonies were held. At the Sorbonne conference of 1894, Pierre de Coubertin  proposed that the Olympic Games should take place in Paris in 1900. However, the delegates to the conference were unwilling to wait six years, and lobbied to hold the first games in 1896. A decision was made to hold the first Olympic Games in 1896 in Athens and have Paris host the second Games. The Games were held as part of the 1900 World's Fair. In total, 1226 competitors took part in 19 different sports. This number relies on certain assumptions about which events were and were not "Olympic". Many athletes, some of whom had won events, were unaware that they had competed in the Olympic Games. Women took part in the games for the first time, with sailor Hélène de Pourtalès, born Helen Barbey in New York City, becoming the first female Olympic champion. The decision to hold competitions on a Sunday brought protests from many American athletes, who traveled as representatives of their colleges and were expected to withdraw rather than compete on their religious day of rest. Most of the winners in 1900 did not receive medals, but were given cups or trophies. Professionals competed in fencing, as was tradition, and Albert Robert Ayat (France), who won the épée for amateurs and masters, was awarded a prize of 3000 francs. Some events were contested for the only time in the history of the Games, including automobile and motorcycle racing, ballooning, cricket, croquet, Basque pelota, and 200m swimming obstacle race and underwater swimming. This was also the only Olympic Games in history to use live animals (pigeons) as targets during the shooting event. The host nation of France fielded 72% of all athletes (720 of the 997) and won the most gold, silver and bronze medal placings. U.S. athletes won the second-most in each, while fielding the fifth most participants, 75. British athletes won the third-most in each, while fielding the second most participants, 102.The 110 metres hurdles, or 110-metre hurdles, is a hurdling track and field event for men. It is included in the athletics programme at the Summer Olympic Games. The female counterpart is the 100 metres hurdles. As part of a racing event, ten hurdles of 42 inches (106.7 cm) in height are evenly spaced along a straight course of 110 metres. They are positioned so that they will fall over if bumped into by the runner. Fallen hurdles do not carry a fixed time penalty for the runners, but they have a significant pull-over weight which slows down the run. Like the 100 metres sprint, the 110 metres hurdles begins in the starting blocks. For the 110 m hurdles, the first hurdle is placed after a run-up of 13.72 metres (45 ft) from the starting line. The next nine hurdles are set at a distance of 9.14 metres (30 ft) from each other, and the home stretch from the last hurdle to the finish line is 14.02 metres (46 ft) long. The Olympic Games have included the 110 metre hurdles in their program since 1896. The equivalent hurdles race for women was run over a course of 80 metres from 1932 to 1968. Starting with the 1972 Summer Olympics, the women's race was set at 100 metres. In the early 20th century, the race was often contested as 120 yard hurdles, thus the imperial units distances between hurdles. The fastest 110 metre hurdlers run the distance in around 13 seconds. Aries Merritt of the United States holds the current world record of 12.80 seconds, set at the Memorial Van Damme meet on 7 September 2012 in Belgium.The 10 kilometres race walk, or 10-kilometer racewalk, is a racewalking event.  The event is competed as a road race. Athletes must always keep in contact with the ground and the supporting leg must remain straight until the raised leg passes it.  10 kilometers is 6.21 miles.The 10,000 metres or the 10,000-metre run is a common long-distance track running event. The event is part of the athletics programme at the Olympic Games and the World Athletics Championships, and is common at championship level events. The race consists of 25 laps around an Olympic-sized track. It is less commonly held at track and field meetings, due to its duration. The 10,000-metre track race is usually distinguished from its road running counterpart, the 10K run, by its reference to the distance in metres rather than kilometres. The 10,000 metres is the longest standard track event, approximately equivalent to 6 miles 376 yards or 32,808 feet 5 inches. Most of those running such races also compete in road races and cross country events.  Added to the Olympic programme in 1912, athletes from Finland, nicknamed the "Flying Finns", dominated the event until the late 1940s. In the 1960s, African runners began to come to the fore. In 1988, the women's competition debuted in the Olympic Games. Official records are kept for outdoor 10,000-metre track events. The world record for men is held by Joshua Cheptegei of Uganda in 26:11.00, posted at Valencia, Spain on 7 October 2020. For women, the world track 10,000-metre record is held by Letesenbet Gidey of Ethiopia in 29:01.03, posted at Hengelo, Netherlands on 8 June 2021. The 10,000 metres demands exceptional levels of aerobic endurance, and elite athletes typically train in excess of 160 km (100 miles) a week.The 10,000 metres race walk is a racewalking event. The event is competed as a track race. Athletes must always keep in contact with the ground and the supporting leg must remain straight until the raised leg passes it. 10,000 meters is 6.21 miles.The 10-mile run is a long-distance running event over a distance of ten miles (16.1 kilometres). It can be held on a road course or on a running track. Also referred to as a 10-miler or 10 miles run, it is a relatively common distance in countries that use the mile as a unit of measure. Ten miles is roughly an intermediate distance between the 10K run and the half marathon (21.1 km). The level of endurance required to run the distance means it attracts more seasoned runners than shorter events and usually requires a period of preparation for first-time attempts.On the track, a noted professional athlete named Reed is believed to have run 10 miles in under an hour at the Artillery Ground, London, in 1774. The event was included in the AAA Championships from 1880 to 1972, but it has never formed part of major championships. The IAAF, now called World Athletics, ratified records for the event from 1921 to 1975 when all records at imperial distances other than the one mile run were discontinued. As a road race, the distance most frequently occurs in non-international, low-level races. Races that attract international-standard athletes are mostly based in the United States, United Kingdom and the Low Countries. Among the longest running 10-mile competitions are the Ten Mile Road Race in Thunder Bay (first held 1910) and the Harold Webster Memorial 10 mile (first held in 1920), both set in the Canadian province of Ontario. The Association of Road Racing Statisticians (ARRS) records world records for the distance, with the approved times for men and women being Haile Gebrselassie's time of 44:23.0 minutes, set on 4 September 2005 at the Tilburg Ten Miles, and Teyba Erkesso's 51:43.4, set on 1 April 2007 at the Cherry Blossom Ten Mile Run. The ARRS only recognises performances at the given distance, rather than intermediate times. Several women have run the 10 miles in faster times as part of a half marathon, including Mary Keitany (50:05)The 100-kilometer race walk is a racewalking event.  The event is competed as a road race. Athletes must always keep in contact with the ground and the supporting leg must remain straight until the raised leg passes it.  100 kilometers is 62.14 miles.The 100 metres, or 100-meter dash, is a sprint race in track and field competitions. The shortest common outdoor running distance, the 100-meter (109.36 yd) dash is one of the most popular and prestigious events in the sport of athletics. It has been contested at the Summer Olympics since 1896 for men and since 1928 for women. The inaugural World Championships were in 1983.  The reigning 100 m Olympic or world champion is often named "the fastest man or woman in the world". Fred Kerley and Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce are the reigning world champions; Marcell Jacobs and Elaine Thompson-Herah are the men's and women's Olympic champions. On an outdoor 400-metre running track, the 100 m is held on the home straight, with the start usually being set on an extension to make it a straight-line race. There are three instructions given to the runners immediately before and at the beginning of the race: "on your marks," "set," and the firing of the starter's pistol. The runners move to the starting blocks when they hear the 'on your marks' instruction. The following instruction, to adopt the 'set' position, allows them to adopt a more efficient starting posture and isometrically preload their muscles: this will help them to start faster. A race-official then fires the starter's pistol to signal the race beginning and the sprinters stride forwards from the blocks. Sprinters typically reach top speed after somewhere between 50 and 60 m. Their speed then slows towards the finish line. The 10-second barrier has historically been a barometer of fast men's performances, while the best female sprinters take eleven seconds or less to complete the race. The current men's world record is 9.58 seconds, set by Jamaica's Usain Bolt in 2009, while the women's world record of 10.49 seconds set by American Florence Griffith-Joyner in 1988 remains unbroken.US athletes have won the men's Olympic 100 metres title more times than any other country, 16 out of the 28 times that it has been run. US women have also dominated the event, winning 9 out of 21 times.The following are examples of orders of magnitude for different lengths.This page is a progressive and labelled list of the SI area orders of magnitude, with certain examples appended to some list objects.ISO 216 is an international standard for paper sizes, used around the world except in North America and parts of Latin America. The standard defines the "A", "B" and "C" series of paper sizes, including A4, the most commonly available paper size worldwide. Two supplementary standards, ISO 217 and ISO 269, define related paper sizes; the ISO 269 "C" series is commonly listed alongside the A and B sizes. All ISO 216, ISO 217 and ISO 269 paper sizes (except some envelopes) have the same aspect ratio, √2:1,  within rounding to millimetres. This ratio has the unique property that when cut or folded in half widthways, the halves also have the same aspect ratio. Each ISO paper size is one half of the area of the next larger size in the same series.110 is a cartridge-based film format used in still photography. It was introduced by Kodak in 1972. 110 is essentially a miniaturized version of Kodak's earlier 126 film format. Each frame is 13 mm × 17 mm (0.51 in × 0.67 in), with one registration hole. Cartridges with 12, 20, or 24 frames are available on-line. Production variations sometimes have allowed for an additional image. The film is fully housed in a plastic cartridge, which also registers the image when the film is advanced. There is a continuous backing paper, and the frame number is visible through a window at the rear of the cartridge. The film does not need to be rewound and is very simple to load and unload. The film is usually pre-exposed with frame lines and numbers, a feature intended to make it easier and more efficient for photofinishers to print. Unlike later competing formats, such as disc and APS film, processed 110 negatives are returned in strips, without the original cartridge.A film format is a technical definition of a set of standard characteristics regarding image capture on photographic film, for either stills or filmmaking. It can also apply to projected film, either slides or movies. The primary characteristic of a film format is its size and shape. In the case of motion picture film, the format sometimes includes audio parameters. Other characteristics usually include the film gauge, pulldown method, lens anamorphosis (or lack thereof), and film gate or projector aperture dimensions, all of which need to be defined for photography as well as projection, as they may differ.120 is a film format for still photography introduced by Kodak for their Brownie No. 2 in 1901. It was originally intended for amateur photography but was later superseded in this role by 135 film. 120 film and its close relative, 220 film, survive to this day as the only medium format films that are readily available to both professionals and amateur enthusiasts.120 is a 2008 Turkish war film directed by Murat Saraçoğlu and Özhan Eren based on the true story of 120 children who died in 1915 carrying ammunition for the Battle of Sarikamish against the Russians during World War I. The film went on general release across Turkey on February 15, 2008 (2008-02-15) and is one of the highest grossing Turkish films of 2008.The Battle of Sarikamish was an engagement between the Russian and Ottoman empires during World War I. It took place from December 22, 1914, to January 17, 1915, as part of the Caucasus campaign. The battle resulted in a Russian victory. The Ottomans employed a strategy which demanded highly mobile troops, capable of arriving at specified objectives at precise times. This approach was based both on German and Napoleonic tactics. The Ottoman troops, ill-prepared for winter conditions, suffered major casualties in the Allahuekber Mountains. Around 25,000 Ottoman soldiers froze to death before the start of the battle.After the battle, Ottoman Minister of War Enver Pasha, who had planned the Ottoman strategy in Sarikamish, publicly blamed his defeat on the Armenians and the battle served as a prelude to the Armenian genocide.The action of Arsuf (8 June 1918), was fought between the forces of the British Empire and the Ottoman Empire, German Empire and Austria-Hungary during the Sinai and Palestine Campaign of the First World War. The British Empire forces involved was the 21st (Bareilly) Brigade comprising the 2nd Battalion, Black Watch, the 1st Guides Infantry, the 29th Punjabis and the 1/8th Gurkha Rifles.On 8 June 1918 the 21st (Bareilly) Brigade, part of the 7th (Meerut) Division, was tasked with the capture of two hills, 1 mile (1.6 km) from the Mediterranean Sea known as the two sisters, defended by elements of the Ottoman 7th Division. The hills were being used as observation posts and the intention was to deprive the Turkish forces of their use. The successful assault was carried out by the Black Watch and the Guides Infantry. The Turkish forces responded with two counter-attacks of their own. The first succeeded in recapturing a section of their previous position before being driven back. The second  counter-attack was defeated before they managed to reach the British position. The Turkish forces suffered "considerable" losses, and four officers and 101 other ranks were taken prisoner. Equipment captured included two heavy and five light machine guns. The capture of the two Turkish positions greatly improved the British position. Their loss deprived the Turkish forces an observation post that overlooked a large portion of the British lines and rear areas. They also now gave the British their own observation post that could see the Turkish rear areas. There capture was significant enough to be mentioned in army despatches.The 7th (Meerut) Division was an infantry division of the British Indian Army that saw active service during World War I.The 107th Pioneers were an infantry regiment of the British Indian Army. Their origin can be traced back to 1788, when they were raised as the 4th Battalion, Bombay Sepoys. The regiments first action was in the Third Anglo-Mysore War. They also took part in the Fourth Anglo-Mysore War being at the two major battles the Battle of Seedaseer and the Battle of Seringapatam. Their next action was at Beni Boo Ali against pirates in Eastern Arabia and the Persian Gulf region led the East India Company to carry out a punitive expedition in 1819 to Ras al Khaimah which destroyed the pirate base and removed the threat from the Persian Gulf. They were also part of the forces involved in the annexation of Burma in the Second Burmese War. After World War I the Indian government reformed the army moving from single battalion regiments to multi-battalion regiments. In 1922, the 107th Pioneers became the 1st Battalion 2nd Bombay Pioneers, which was disbanded for reasons of economy in 1933.The 2nd Bombay Pioneers was a regiment of the British Indian Army. The regiment was formed in 1922, when the infantry of the Indian Army moved from single battalion to multi battalion regiments. They were renamed The Corps of Bombay Pioneers in 1929, and were disbanded for reasons of economy in 1933.The 121st Pioneers were an infantry regiment of the East India Company's Bombay Army and later the British Indian Army. The regiment traces their origins to 1777, when they were raised as the Marine Battalion. The regiments first action was in the Anglo-Persian War, they returned to the Gulf when they were used in the punitive expedition in the Beni Boo Ali campaign in 1821, against the pirates in Eastern Arabia and the Persian Gulf. They were involved in a number of campaigns following this the conquest of Sindh including the Battle of Hyderabad in 1843. The Second Anglo-Sikh War in 1848, the Second Anglo-Burmese War in 1852 and the 1868 Expedition to Abyssinia. During World War I the regiment served in the Mesopotamia Campaign and the Sinai and Palestine Campaigns. After World War I the Indian government reformed the army moving from single battalion regiments to multi battalion regiments. In 1922, the 121st Pioneers became the 10th (Marine) Battalion, 2nd Bombay Pioneers. The regiment was disbanded in 1932.The British Expedition to Abyssinia was a rescue mission and punitive expedition carried out in 1868 by the armed forces of the British Empire against the Ethiopian Empire (also known at the time as Abyssinia). Emperor Tewodros II of Ethiopia, then often referred to by the anglicized name Theodore, imprisoned several missionaries and two representatives of the British government in an attempt to force the British government to comply with his requests for military assistance. The punitive expedition launched by the British in response required the transportation of a sizeable military force hundreds of kilometres across mountainous terrain lacking any road system. The formidable obstacles to the action were overcome by the commander of the expedition, General Robert Napier, who was victorious in every battle against the troops of Tewodros, captured the Ethiopian capital, and rescued all the hostages. The expedition was widely hailed on its return for achieving all its objectives. Historian Harold G. Marcus described the action as "one of the most expensive affairs of honour in history."The 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine, later known as The Great Revolt (al-Thawra al- Kubra) or The Great Palestinian Revolt (Thawrat Filastin al-Kubra), was a nationalist uprising by Palestinian Arabs in Mandatory Palestine against the British administration of the Palestine Mandate, demanding Arab independence and the end of the policy of open-ended Jewish immigration and land purchases with the stated goal of establishing a "Jewish National Home". The uprising coincided with a peak in the influx of immigrant Jews, some 60,000, that year – the Jewish population having grown under British auspices from 57,000 to 320,000 in 1935 – and with the growing plight of the rural fellahin rendered landless, who as they moved to metropolitan centers to escape their abject poverty found themselves socially marginalized. Since 1920 Jews and Palestinians had been involved in a cycle of attacks and counter-attacks, and the immediate spark for the uprising was the murder of two Jews by a Qassamite band, and the retaliatory killing by Jewish gunmen of two Arab laborers, incidents which triggered a flare-up of violence across Palestine.  A month into the disturbances Amin al-Husseini declared 16 May 1936 as 'Palestine Day' and called for a General Strike. The revolt was branded by many in the Jewish Yishuv as "immoral and terroristic", often compared to fascism and Nazism. Ben Gurion, however, described Arab causes as fear of growing Jewish economic power, opposition to mass Jewish immigration and fear of the English identification with Zionism.The general strike lasted from April to October 1936. The revolt is often analysed in terms of two distinct phases. The first phase was one of spontaneous popular resistance which was only, in a second moment, seized on by the urban and elitist Higher Arab Committee (HAC), which gave the movement an organized shape and was focused mainly on strikes and other forms of political protest, in order to secure a political result. By October 1936, this phase had been defeated by the British civil administration using a combination of political concessions, international diplomacy (involving the rulers of Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Transjordan and Yemen and the threat of martial law. The second phase, which began late in 1937, was a peasant-led resistance movement provoked by British repression in 1936 in which increasingly British forces were targeted as the army itself increasingly targeted the villages it thought supportive of the revolt. During this phase, the rebellion was brutally suppressed by the British Army and the Palestine Police Force using repressive measures that were intended to intimidate the whole population and undermine popular support for the revolt. A more dominant role on the Arab side was taken by the Nashashibi clan, whose NDP party quickly withdrew from the rebel Arab Higher Committee, led by the radical faction of Amin al-Husseini, and instead sided with the British – dispatching "Fasail al-Salam" (the "Peace Bands") in coordination with the British Army against nationalist and Jihadist Arab "Fasail" units (literally "bands"). According to official British figures covering the whole revolt, the army and police killed more than 2,000 Arabs in combat, 108 were hanged,   and 961 died because of what they described as "gang and terrorist activities". In an analysis of the British statistics, Walid Khalidi  estimates 19,792 casualties for the Arabs, with 5,032 dead: 3,832 killed by the British and 1,200 dead due to intracommunal terrorism, and 14,760 wounded. By one estimate, ten percent of the adult male Palestinian Arab population between 20 and 60 was killed, wounded, imprisoned or exiled. Estimates of the number of Palestinian Jews killed are up to several hundred.The Arab revolt in Mandatory Palestine was unsuccessful, and its consequences affected the outcome of the 1948 Palestine war. It caused the British Mandate to give crucial support to pre-state Zionist militias like the Haganah, whereas on the Palestinian Arab side, the revolt forced the flight into exile of the main Palestinian Arab leader of the period, the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem – Haj Amin al-Husseini.The 11th Hussars (Prince Albert's Own) was a cavalry regiment of the British Army established in 1715. It saw service for three centuries including the First World War and Second World War but then amalgamated with the 10th Royal Hussars (Prince of Wales' Own) to form the Royal Hussars in 1969.The 10th Royal Hussars (Prince of Wales's Own) was a cavalry regiment of the British Army raised in 1715. It saw service for three centuries including the First World War and Second World War but then amalgamated with the 11th Hussars (Prince Albert's Own) to form the Royal Hussars (Prince of Wales's Own) in October 1969.The 10th (Magdeburg) Hussars Regiment (German: Magdeburgisches Husaren-Regiment Nr. 10) were a Prussian Light cavalry regiment of the IV Corps that was formed in late 1813 during the War of the Sixth Coalition against Napoleon after the Battle of Leipzig. The Hussars were a distinctively dressed light cavalry of East European origin. The 10th Hussars were stationed from 1814 to 1884 in Aschersleben and after 1884 in Stendal. They fought in 1866 at the Battle of Königgrätz and later in World War I.The German revolutions of 1848–1849 (German: Deutsche Revolution 1848/1849), the opening phase of which was also called the March Revolution (German: Märzrevolution), were initially part of the Revolutions of 1848 that broke out in many European countries. They were a series of loosely coordinated protests and rebellions in the states of the German Confederation, including the Austrian Empire. The revolutions, which stressed pan-Germanism, demonstrated popular discontent with the traditional, largely autocratic political structure of the thirty-nine independent states of the Confederation that inherited the German territory of the former Holy Roman Empire after its dismantlement as a result of the Napoleonic Wars. This process began in the mid 1840s. The middle-class elements were committed to liberal principles, while the working class sought radical improvements to their working and living conditions. As the middle class and working class components of the Revolution split, the conservative aristocracy defeated it. Liberals were forced into exile to escape political persecution, where they became known as Forty-Eighters. Many emigrated to the United States, settling from Wisconsin to Texas.The 1st Foot Guard Regiment (German: 1. Garde-Regiment zu Fuß) was an infantry regiment of the Royal Prussian Army formed in 1806 after Napoleon defeated Prussia in the Battle of Jena–Auerstedt. It was formed by combining all previous Foot Guard Regiments and was, from its inception, the bodyguard-regiment of Kings of Prussia. Save William II, who also wore the uniforms of other regiments, all Prussian Kings and most Princes of Prussia wore the uniform of the 1st Foot Guard Regiment. All Princes of Prussia were commissioned lieutenants in the 1st Foot Guards upon their tenth birthdays. The King of Prussia was also the Colonel-in-chief of the regiment, as well as the Chief of the 1st Battalion and 1st Company of the regiment. Therefore, the regiment held the highest rank within the Prussian Army, which, among other things, meant that the officer corps of the regiment marched before the princes of the German Empire and the diplomatic corps in the traditional New Year's reception. Unofficially, the regiment was known as the "First Regiment of Christendom" (German: Erstes Regiment der Christenheit). The regiment was disbanded in 1919 when the Imperial German Army was dissolved, with the Infantry Regiment 9 Potsdam of the new Reichsheer bearing its tradition. The Wachbataillon continues the tradition of this regiment in the Bundeswehr of the Federal Republic of Germany.The twin battles of Jena and Auerstedt (German pronunciation: [ˈjeːna … ˈaʊ̯ɐ.ʃtɛt]; older spelling: Auerstädt) were fought on 14 October 1806 on the plateau west of the river Saale in today's Germany, between the forces of Napoleon I of France and Frederick William III of Prussia. The defeat suffered by the Prussian Army subjugated the Kingdom of Prussia to the French Empire until the Sixth Coalition was formed in 1813.Several figures who were later integral to the reformation of the Prussian Army participated at Jena–Auerstedt, including Gebhard von Blücher, Carl von Clausewitz, August Neidhardt von Gneisenau, Gerhard von Scharnhorst, and Hermann von Boyen.Alexander I (Russian: Алекса́ндр I Па́влович, tr. Aleksándr I Pávlovich, IPA: [ɐlʲɪkˈsandr ˈpavləvʲɪtɕ]; 23 December [O.S. 12 December] 1777 – 1 December [O.S. 19 November] 1825) was Emperor of Russia from 1801, the first King of Congress Poland from 1815, and the Grand Duke of Finland from 1809 to his death. He was the eldest son of Emperor Paul I and Sophie Dorothea of Württemberg. The son of Grand Duke Paul Petrovich, later Paul I, Alexander succeeded to the throne after his father was murdered. He ruled Russia during the chaotic period of the Napoleonic Wars. As prince and during the early years of his reign, Alexander often used liberal rhetoric, but continued Russia's absolutist policies in practice. In the first years of his reign, he initiated some minor social reforms and (in 1803–04) major liberal educational reforms, such as building more universities. Alexander appointed Mikhail Speransky, the son of a village priest, as one of his closest advisors. The Collegia were abolished and replaced by the State Council, which was created to improve legislation. Plans were also made to set up a parliament and sign a constitution. In foreign policy, he changed Russia's position towards France four times between 1804 and 1812 among neutrality, opposition, and alliance. In 1805 he joined Britain in the War of the Third Coalition against Napoleon, but after suffering massive defeats at the battles of Austerlitz and Friedland, he switched sides and formed an alliance with Napoleon by the Treaty of Tilsit (1807) and joined Napoleon's Continental System. He fought a small-scale naval war against Britain between 1807 and 1812 as well as a short war against Sweden (1808–09) after Sweden's refusal to join the Continental System. Alexander and Napoleon hardly agreed, especially regarding Poland, and the alliance collapsed by 1810. Alexander's greatest triumph came in 1812 when Napoleon's invasion of Russia proved to be a catastrophic disaster for the French. As part of the winning coalition against Napoleon, he gained territory in Finland and Poland. He formed the Holy Alliance to suppress revolutionary movements in Europe which he saw as immoral threats to legitimate Christian monarchs. He also helped Austria's Klemens von Metternich in suppressing all national and liberal movements. During the second half of his reign, Alexander became increasingly arbitrary, reactionary, and fearful of plots against him; as a result he ended many of the reforms he made earlier. He purged schools of foreign teachers, as education became more religiously driven as well as politically conservative. Speransky was replaced as advisor with the strict artillery inspector Aleksey Arakcheyev, who oversaw the creation of military settlements. Alexander died of typhus in December 1825 while on a trip to southern Russia. He left no legitimate children, as his two daughters died in childhood. Neither of his brothers wanted to become emperor. After a period of great confusion (that presaged the failed Decembrist revolt of liberal army officers in the weeks after his death), he was succeeded by his younger brother, Nicholas I.Aargau, more formally the Canton of Aargau (German: Kanton Aargau; Romansh: Chantun Argovia; French: Canton d'Argovie; Italian: Canton Argovia), is one of the 26 cantons forming the Swiss Confederation. It is composed of eleven districts and its capital is Aarau. Aargau is one of the most northerly cantons of Switzerland. It is situated by the lower course of the Aare River, which is why the canton is called Aar-gau (meaning "Aare province"). It is one of the most densely populated regions of Switzerland.Elections to the Swiss Federal Assembly, the federal parliament of Switzerland, were held on Sunday, 21 October 2007. In a few cantons, a second round of the elections to the Council of States was held on 11 November, 18 November, and 25 November 2007. For the 48th legislative term of the federal parliament (2007–2011), voters in 26 cantons elected all 200 members of the National Council as well as 43 out of 46 members of the Council of States. The other three members of the Council of States for that term of service were elected at an earlier date.On 12 December 2007, the newly elected legislature elected the Swiss federal government, the Swiss Federal Council, for a four-year-term. The results reflected yet another rise in support for the strongest party, the right-wing populist Swiss People's Party, at 29% of the popular vote, and the growth of the Green and Green Liberal parties at the expense of the  Social Democrats.A constitutional referendum was held in the Helvetic Republic over several months in 1798. Modelled after the French Constitution of the Year III of 1795, the new constitution was approved by voters. In some places voting took places in public assemblies, whilst in others the local councils took the decision.A constitutional referendum was held in the Helvetic Republic on 25 May 1802. Unlike the constitution approved in 1798, the new constitution, known as the Malmaison constitution, did not provide for any referendums. Non-voters were assumed to have voted in favour of the new constitution, a measure put in place to prevent its rejection. As a result, 72.17% of voters were deemed to be in favour.A constitutional referendum was held in Switzerland on 6 June 1848 and was the first referendum on record in the Swiss Confederation. The new constitution was approved by 72.8% of voters and a majority of cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland between 1 and 27 October 1848. The Radical Left emerged as the largest group, winning 79 of the 111 seats in the National Council.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 26 October 1851. The Radical Left remained the largest group in the National Council, winning 78 of the 120 seats.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 29 October 1854. The Radical Left remained the largest group in the National Council, winning 80 of the 120 seats.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 28 October 1857. The Radical Left remained the largest group in the National Council, winning 80 of the 120 seats.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 28 October 1860. Despite large losses, the Radical Left remained the largest group in the National Council, winning 64 of the 120 seats.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 25 October 1863. The Radical Left remained the largest group in the National Council, but lost its majority for the first time since 1848.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 28 October 1866. The Radical Left remained the largest group in the National Council.A nine-part referendum was held in Switzerland on 14 January 1866. Only two proposals received a majority of votes in favour, and only one had both a majority of votes and majority of cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 31 October 1869. The Radical Left remained the largest group in the National Council.A constitutional referendum was held in Switzerland on 12 May 1872. The new constitution was rejected by 50.5% of voters and a majority of cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 27 October 1872. The Radical Left remained the largest group in the National Council.A constitutional referendum was held in Switzerland on 19 April 1874. The new constitution was approved by 63.2% of voters and a majority of cantons. It gave more responsibilities and powers to the federal government.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 31 October 1875. The Radical Left remained the largest group in the National Council.A two-part referendum was held in Switzerland on 23 May 1875. A new federal law establishing and certifying civil status and marriage was narrowly approved, whilst a new federal law on suffrage was narrowly rejected.Two referendums were held in Switzerland in 1876. The first was held on 23 April on the subject of distributing and cashing of banknotes, and was rejected by 61.7% of voters. The second was held on 9 July on a federal law on taxation of compensation for not serving in the military, and was rejected by 54.2% of voters.A three-part referendum was held in Switzerland on 21 October 1877. A federal law on working in factories was approved by voters, whilst a federal law on compensation for not serving in the military and a federal law on the political rights of settled and travelling people and the loss of rights for Swiss citizens were both rejected.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 27 October 1878. The Radical Left remained the largest group in the National Council.Two referendums were held in Switzerland in January and May 1879. A federal law on subsidies for railways in the Alps was passed by 70.7% of voters on 19 January, whilst a referendum on abolishing the constitutional ban on the death penalty on 18 May was passed by 52.5% of voters and a majority of cantons. Following the vote, ten of the 26 cantons reintroduced the death penalty during the 1880s and 1890s and nine executions occurred before its nationwide abolition in 1938, when a new criminal code (which overrode cantonal penal codes) was approved in a referendum.A constitutional referendum was held in Switzerland on 31 October 1880 aiming at a complete overhaul of the constitution. The constitutional amendments were rejected by 68.2% of voters and a majority of cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 30 October 1881. The Radical Left remained the largest group in the National Council, regaining the majority they had lost in 1863.Three referendums were held in Switzerland in 1882. Two were held on 30 July on copyright law and measures against epidemics, both of which were rejected. The third was held on 26 November on executing article 27 of the federal constitution, and was rejected by 64.9% of voters.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 26 October 1884. The Radical Left retained its majority in the National Council.A four-part referendum was held in Switzerland on 11 May 1884. All four were rejected by voters.A constitutional referendum was held in Switzerland on 25 October 1885. The constitutional amendments were approved by 59.4% of voters and a majority of cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 30 October 1887. The Radical Left narrowly retained its majority in the National Council.Two referendums were held in Switzerland in 1887. The first was held on 15 May, asking voters whether they approved of a federal law on spirits, and was approved by 65.9% of voters. The second was held on 10 July, asking voters whether they approved of an amendment made to article 64 of the federal constitution, and was approved by 77.9% of voters and 20.5 cantons.A referendum on a federal law on insolvency and debt was held in Switzerland on 17 November 1889. The new law was approved by 52.9% of voters.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 26 October 1890. The Radical Left narrowly retained its majority in the National Council.A referendum on accident and health insurance was held in Switzerland on 2 October 1890. Voters were asked whether they approved of a federal resolution on amending the constitution with regards to accident and health insurance. It was approved by a majority of voters and cantons.Five referendums were held in Switzerland in 1891. The first was held on 15 March on a federal law on federal officials who had become unemployable due to disability, and was rejected by 79.4% of voters. The second was held on 5 July on a constitutional amendment, and was approved by 60.3% of voters. Two referendums were held on 18 October, one on revising article 39 of the federal constitution and one on a federal law on Swiss tariffs; both were approved. The last was held on 6 December on the question of whether the federal government should purchase the Swiss Central Railway, but was rejected by 68.9% of voters.A referendum on animal protection was held in Switzerland on 20 August 1893. Voters were asked whether they approved of prohibiting butchering without the animals being anaesthetised. The proposal was approved by 60.1% of voters and a narrow majority of cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 29 October 1893. The Radical Left narrowly retained its majority in the National Council.Three referendums were held in Switzerland during 1894. The first was held on 4 March on a federal resolution to amend the constitution regarding trade and commerce, and was rejected by a majority of voters and cantons. The second was held on 3 June on a popular initiative on the right to work, and was rejected by a majority of voters and all cantons. The third was held on 4 November 1894 on a popular initiative on a partial contribution to tariffs from the cantons, and was also rejected by a majority of voters and cantons.Three referendums were held in Switzerland during 1895. The first was held on 3 February on a popular initiative on a federal law on Swiss embassies abroad, and was rejected by a majority of voters. The second was held on 29 September on a federal resolution on amending the constitution regarding the institution of a match monopoly, and was rejected by a majority of voters and cantons. The third was held on 3 November on a constitutional amendment regarding the military, and was also rejected by a majority of voters and cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 25 October 1896. The Free Democratic Party retained its majority in the National Council.A three-part referendum was held in Switzerland on 4 October 1896. Voters were asked whether they approved of a federal law on guarantees in the cattle trade, a federal law on the accounting system for the railways and a federal law on the disciplinary penal code for the federal army. Whilst the law on the railways was approved, the other two were rejected by voters.Three referendums were held in Switzerland during 1897. The first was held on 28 February on a federal law establishing a Central Bank, and was rejected by a majority of voters. The second and third were held on 11 July concerning an amendment to article 24 of the constitution and on legislation on potentially harmful foodstuffs and stimulants. Both were approved by a majority of voters and cantons.Three referendums were held in Switzerland during 1898. The first was held on 20 February on a federal law that would nationalise the railways, and was approved by a majority of voters, leading to the establishment of Swiss Federal Railways in 1902. The second and third referendums were held on 13 November on revising article 64 and adding article 64bis to the constitution, both of which were approved by a majority of voters and cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 26 October 1899. The Free Democratic Party retained its majority in the National Council.Three referendums were held in Switzerland during 1900. The first was held on 20 May on a federal law on health, accident and military insurance, and was rejected by 69.8% of voters. The second and third were held on 4 November on introducing proportional representation for National Council elections and the direct election and increase in members of the Federal Council. Both were rejected by a majority of voters and cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 26 October 1902. The Free Democratic Party retained its majority in the National Council.A referendum on schools was held in Switzerland on 15 March 1903. Voters were asked whether they approved of a federal resolution on the federal government providing financial support for public elementary schools. It was approved by 76.3% of voters and a majority of cantons.Four referendums were held in Switzerland during 1903. The first was held on 15 March on a federal law on tariffs, and was approved by 59.6% of voters. The second, third and fourth were all held on 25 October concerning an amendment to the federal criminal law, a popular initiative on Swiss residents electing the National Council and an amendment to article 32bis of the constitution. All three were rejected by voters.A referendum on copyright was held in Switzerland on 19 March 1905. Voters were asked whether they approved of a federal resolution on revising article 64 of the constitution, defining the protection rights of inventors. It was approved by 70.4% of voters and a majority of cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 29 October 1905. The Free Democratic Party retained its majority in the National Council.A referendum on foodstuffs was held in Switzerland on 10 June 1906. Voters were asked whether they approved of a new federal law concerning foodstuffs and basic commodities. The proposal was approved by 62.6% of voters.A referendum on the armed forces was held in Switzerland on 3 November 1907. Voters were asked whether they approved of the organisation of the federal armed forces. The proposal was approved by 55.2% of voters.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 29 October 1908. The Free Democratic Party retained its majority in the National Council.Three referendums were held in Switzerland during 1908. The first two were held on 5 July on amending the federal trade law and on banning absinthe. Both were approved by a majority of voters and cantons. The third was held on 25 October on adding article 24bis to the constitution, concerning hydroelectricity and electricity. It was also approved by a majority of voters and cantons.A referendum on the electoral system was held in Switzerland on 23 October 1910. Voters were asked whether they approved of introducing proportional representation for National Council elections. Although the proposal was approved by a majority of cantons, it was rejected by 52.5% of voters. This was the second such referendum, after the one in 1900 also failed. However, a third referendum on the same issue was held in 1918, and passed with 66.8% in favour.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 29 October 1911. The Free Democratic Party retained its majority in the National Council.A referendum on insurance was held in Switzerland on 4 February 1912. Voters were asked whether they approved of a federal law on health and accident insurance. The proposal was approved by 54.4% of voters.A referendum on disease control was held in Switzerland on 4 May 1913. Voters were asked whether they approved of amending two articles of the constitution, 31 II, lit d and 69, which covered the control of human and animal diseases. It was approved by a majority of voters and cantons.A constitutional referendum was held in Switzerland on 25 October 1914. The proposed amendments of article 103 and the addition of article 114bis were approved by 62.3% of voters and a majority of cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 25 October 1914. The Free Democratic Party retained its majority in the National Council.A referendum on a war tax was held in Switzerland on 6 June 1915. Voters were asked whether they approved of amending the constitution to introduce a one-off war tax during the First World War, which Switzerland remained neutral. It was approved by a large majority of voters and all cantons, the first time a referendum had been passed in every canton.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 28 October 1917. The Free Democratic Party retained its majority in the National Council. They were the last elections held under the majoritarian system; following a referendum in 1918 in which two-thirds of voters voted for the introduction of proportional representation, the electoral system was changed and early elections held in 1919.A referendum on stamp duty was held in Switzerland on 13 May 1917. Voters were asked whether they approved of amending articles 41bis and 42 lit d of the constitution, which covered stamp duty. The proposal was approved by a majority of voters and cantons.Two referendums were held in Switzerland during 1918. The first was held on 2 June on introducing a direct federal tax, and was rejected by a majority of voters and cantons. The second was held on 13 October 1918 on introducing proportional representation for National Council elections, and was approved by a majority of voters and cantons. As a result, proportional representation was introduced in the 1919 elections.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 26 October 1919. The Free Democratic Party emerged as the largest party in the National Council, winning 60 of the 189 seats.Three referendums were held in Switzerland during 1919. The first two were held on 4 May on amending the constitution to add article 24ter on shipping, and on a constitutional amendment to impose a war tax. Both proposals were approved by a majority of voters and cantons. The third was held on 10 August on temporary amendments to article 73 of the constitution, and was also approved in spite of low turnout.Five referendums were held in Switzerland during 1920. The first three were held on 21 March on a federal law on regulating employment contracts, a ban on creating gambling establishments and a counterproposal to the ban. The fourth was held on 16 May on membership the League of Nations (which Switzerland had become a founding member of the previous year), whilst the fifth was held on 31 October on a federal law on working times on railways and other transport services. Of the five, only the ban on gambling establishments, League of Nations membership and the law on working times were passed.Four referendums were held in Switzerland during 1921. The first two were held on 30 January on holding referendums on treaties that would be valid for at least 15 years and on abolishing the military judiciary. The treaty proposal was approved, whilst the abolishment of the military judiciary was rejected. The third and fourth were held on 22 May on add articles 37bis and 37ter on road traffic and aviation to the constitution, and on only adding article 37ter on aviation. Both were approved.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 29 October 1922. The Free Democratic Party remained the largest party in the National Council, winning 60 of the 198 seats.Five referendums were held in Switzerland during 1922. The first three were held on 11 June on the process of obtaining Swiss citizenship, on expelling foreigners and on the eligibility of federal officials to stand in National Council elections. All three were rejected. The fourth was held on 24 September on an amendment of the criminal law regarding constitutional and domestic security, and was also rejected. The fifth was held on 3 December on introducing a one-off property tax, and was rejected by a wide margin.Four referendums were held in Switzerland during 1923. The first two were held on 18 February on protective custody and a federal resolution on relations with France over the former free trade area of Haute-Savoie. The third was held on 15 April on a popular initiative "for the ensuring of people's rights in questions regarding tariffs", whilst the fourth was held on 3 June on amending articles 31 and 32bis of the constitution regarding alcohol. All four were rejected by voters.A referendum on employment protection was held in Switzerland on 17 February 1924. Voters were asked whether they approved of an amendment to the federal employment protection law. The proposal was rejected by 57.6% of voters.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 25 October 1925. The Free Democratic Party remained the largest party in the National Council, winning 60 of the 198 seats.Three referendums were held in Switzerland during 1925. The first was held on 24 May on a popular initiative calling for insurance for invalidity, old age and bereavement, and was rejected by voters. The second was held on 25 October on a federal resolution on the settlement and residence of foreigners, and was approved by a majority of voters and cantons. The third was held on 6 December on a federal resolution on insurance for invalidity, old age and bereavement, and was also approved by a majority of voters and cantons.A referendum on grain supply was held in Switzerland on 5 December 1926. Voters were asked whether they approved of adding article 23bis to the constitution, which concerned grain supply. The proposal was rejected by a majority of voters and cantons.A double referendum was held in Switzerland on 15 May 1927. Voters were asked whether they approved of amending article 30 of the constitution and a federal law on car and bicycle traffic. The constitutional amendment was approved by voters, whilst the traffic law was rejected.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 28 October 1928. Although the Social Democratic Party received the most votes (by a margin of just six votes), the Free Democratic Party remained the largest party in the National Council, winning 58 of the 198 seats.Two referendums were held in Switzerland during 1928. The first was held on 20 May, asking voters whether they approved of amending article 44 of the constitution regarding measures against foreign infiltrators, and was approved by a majority of voters and cantons. The second was held on 2 December, asking voters whether they approved of the "Kursaalspiele" popular initiative on gambling, and was also approved.Five referendums were held in Switzerland during 1929. The first three were held on 3 March on the issues of grain supply (a proposal and counter-proposal) and a federal law on tariffs. The counter-proposal to the grain supply question and the tariffs law were both approved. The fourth and fifth referendums were held on 12 May on popular initiatives on road traffic and banning spirits. Both were rejected by voters.A referendum on alcohol was held in Switzerland on 6 April 1930. Voters were asked whether they approved of amending articles 31 and 32 bis and adding article 32 quater, which concerned alcohol. The proposal was approved by a majority of voters and cantons.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 25 October 1931. Although the Social Democratic Party received the most votes, the Free Democratic Party remained the largest party in the National Council, winning 52 of the 187 seats.Five referendums were held in Switzerland during 1931. The first was held on 8 February on a federal resolution on a petition for a referendum on article 12 of the constitution concerning bans on religious orders, and was approved by a majority of voters and cantons. The second and third were held on 15 March on revising article 72 of the constitution concerning the election of the National Council and on revising article 76, 96 and 105 on the legislative term. Both were approved. The fourth and fifth were held on 6 December on a federal law on aged and bereavement insurance and a federal law on tobacco taxation. Both were rejected.A referendum on federal salaries was held in Switzerland on 28 May 1933. Voters were asked whether they approved of a federal law that would lower the salaries of federal officials on a temporary basis. The proposal was rejected by 55.1% of voters.A referendum on public order was held in Switzerland on 11 March 1934. Voters were asked whether they approved of a federal law on maintaining public order. The proposal was rejected by 53.8% of voters.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 27 October 1935. The Social Democratic Party emerged as the largest party in the National Council, winning 50 of the 187 seats.Four referendums were held in Switzerland during 1935. The first was held on 24 February on a federal law reorganising the military, and was approved by voters. The second was held on 5 May on a federal law on the transport of goods and animals on roads, and was rejected by two-thirds of voters. The third was held on 2 June on a popular initiative "to combat the economic crisis" and was also rejected by voters. The fourth was held on 8 September on a popular initiative "for a total revision of the federal constitution", and was rejected by 72% of voters.A referendum on freemasonry was held in Switzerland on 28 November 1937. Voters were asked whether they approved of a popular initiative that would ban the practice. The proposal was rejected by a majority of voters and cantons.Six referendums were held in Switzerland during 1938. The first four were held on 20 February; the first on amending articles 107 and 116 of the constitution to make Romansch an official language, which was approved by over 90% of voters and all cantons. The second was on a popular initiative "on urgent federal resolutions and the protection of people's rights" and was rejected by 85% of voters. The third was on a popular initiative on the private arms industry, and was also rejected by a wide margin, whilst the fourth was on a counter-proposal to the arms industry question, and was approved by voters. The fifth referendum was held on 3 July on the penal code, and was approved. The sixth and final referendum of the year was held on 27 November on a federal resolution on the transient order of the federal budget, and was approved by 72% of voters.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 29 October 1939. The Free Democratic Party emerged as the largest party in the National Council, winning 49 of the 187 seats. Due to the outbreak of World War II, there were no elections in nine of the 25 cantons; Appenzell Ausserrhoden, Lucerne, Neuchâtel, Schwyz, Solothurn, Ticino, Valais, Vaud and Zug. In what became known as "silent elections", a total of 55 candidates were elected unopposed.Four referendums were held in Switzerland during 1939. The first two were held on 22 January on a popular initiative on civil rights (which was rejected) and a federal resolution on the restricted use of the urgency clause in the constitution (which was approved). The third was held on 4 June on a constitutional amendment regarding the funding for government policies on defence and unemployment, and was approved by voters. The fourth was held on 3 December on a federal law on the employment status and insurance for federal civil servants, and was rejected by voters.A referendum on the military was held in Switzerland on 1 December 1940. Voters were asked whether they approved of amending articles 103 and 104 of the federal law that detailed the organisation of the Swiss military. The proposal was rejected by 55.7% of voters.A referendum on alcohol was held in Switzerland on 9 March 1941. Voters were asked whether they approved of a popular initiative for changing the alcohol order. The proposal was rejected by 59.8% of voters.Two referendums were held in Switzerland during 1942. The first was held on 25 January on a popular initiative that would provide for the direct election of the Federal Council, as well as increasing the number of members. It was rejected by voters. The second was held on 3 May on a popular initiative "for the reorganisation of the National Council", and was also rejected.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 31 October 1943. The Social Democratic Party emerged as the largest party in the National Council, winning 56 of the 194 seats.A referendum on unfair competition was held in Switzerland on 29 October 1944. Voters were asked whether they approved of a new federal law on unfair competition. The proposal was approved by 52.9% of voters.Two referendums were held in Switzerland during 1945. The first was held on 21 January on a federal law on the Swiss Federal Railways, and was approved by voters. The second was held on 25 November on a federal resolution on the "for the family" petition, and was also approved.Two referendums were held in Switzerland during 1946. The first was held on 10 February on a federal resolution on a petition on cargo transportation, and was rejected by voters. The second was held on 8 December on a popular initiative on the "right to work", and was also rejected.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 26 October 1947. Although the Social Democratic Party received the most votes, the Free Democratic Party emerged as the largest party in the National Council, winning 52 of the 194 seats.Three referendums were held in Switzerland during 1947. The first was held on 18 May on a popular initiative for "economic reform and rights concerning work", and was rejected by voters. The second and third were both held on 6 July on revising the articles of the federal constitution covering the economy and a federal law on aged and bereavement insurance. Both were approved by voters.A referendum on the sugar industry was held in Switzerland on 14 March 1948. Voters were asked whether they approved of a federal resolution on the reorganisation of the Swiss sugar industry. The proposal was rejected by 63.8% of voters.Four referendums were held in Switzerland during 1949. The first two were held on 22 May on revising article 39 of the federal constitution concerning the Swiss National Bank and a federal law amending a 1928 law on measures against tuberculosis, with both rejected by voters. The third was held on 11 September on a popular initiative "for the recurrence to direct democracy" and was narrowly approved. The final one was held on 11 December on a federal law to amend the employment status of federal civil servants, and was also approved.Five referendums were held in Switzerland during 1950. The first was held on 29 January on extending a federal resolution on promoting housebuilding, and was rejected by voters. The second was held on 4 June on the federal budget, and was also rejected by voters. The third was held on 1 October on a popular initiative "for the protection of ground and labour by prohibiting speculation", and was rejected by voters. The final two were held on 3 December on revising article 72 of the constitution regarding the election of the National Council and a federal resolution on financial order between 1951 and 1954. Both were approved by voters.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 28 October 1951. Although the Social Democratic Party received the most votes, the Free Democratic Party remained the largest party in the National Council, winning 51 of the 196 seats.Four referendums were held in Switzerland during 1951. The first was held on 25 February on a federal resolution on transport, and was rejected by voters. The second was held on 15 April on a popular initiative to ensure purchasing power and full employment, together with a counterproposal. The counterproposal was approved by 69% of voters, whilst the original proposal was rejected by 88% of voters. The fourth referendum was held on 8 July on forcing public enterprises to make a financial contribution to the national defence budget, and was also rejected by voters.Nine referendums were held in Switzerland during 1952. The first was held on 2 March on a federal resolution on changing the licensing requirements for new pubs, and was rejected by 54% of voters. The second was held on 30 March on a federal law on promoting agriculture and the farming community, and was approved by 54% of voters. The third was held on 20 April on a popular initiative on a "commodity sales tax", and was rejected by 81% of voters. The fourth was held on 18 May on a popular initiative "for the finance of armaments and the protection of social achievements", and was rejected by 56% of voters. The fifth was held on 6 July on a federal resolution on the coverage of expenditure on weapons, and was rejected by 58% of voters. The sixth and seventh were both held on 5 October on making an amendment to the federal law on Aged and Bereavement insurance regarding tobacco tax, and on establishing air raid shelters in buildings. The first was approved by 68% of voters, whilst the second was rejected by 85%. The eighth and ninth were both held on 23 November on a limited prolongation of some price controls and a federal resolution on bread supply. Both were approved by voters.Three referendums were held in Switzerland during 1953. The first was held on 19 April on revising the federal law on postal delivery, and was rejected by 64% of voters. The second and third were held on 6 December on reordering the federal budget and adding a new article 24quater to the federal constitution on water pollution controls. The budget proposal was rejected by 58% of voters, whilst the constitutional amendment was approved by 81% of voters.Four referendums were held in Switzerland during 1954. The first two were held on 20 June on a federal resolution on concessions for shoemakers, saddlers, barbers and wainwrights and a federal resolution on assistance for war-affected Swiss citizens living abroad. Both were rejected by voters. The third was held on 24 October on a federal resolution on financial order between 1955 and 1958, and was approved by 70% of voters. The fourth was held on 5 December on a popular initiative for the "protection of the Stromlandschaft and concession Rheinau", and was rejected by 69% of voters.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 30 October 1955. The Social Democratic Party emerged as the largest party in the National Council, winning 53 of the 196 seats.A referendum on tenant and consumer protection was held in Switzerland on 13 March 1955. Voters were asked whether they approved of a popular initiative "for the protection of tenants and consumers", which would prolong price controls. Although the proposal was approved by a majority of voters, it was rejected by a majority of cantons, so did not come into force. Voters also voted on a counterproposal, which was rejected by a majority of voters and cantons.Five referendums were held in Switzerland during 1956. The first was held on 4 March on a federal resolution on a limited extension of price controls, and was approved by voters. The second and third were held on 13 May on a popular initiative "on the grant of concessions for water usage" and a federal resolution on government efforts to strengthen the economy of Graubünden, both of which were rejected by voters. The fourth and fifth were held on 30 September on a federal resolution on changing the breadstuffs law and a petition about decisions on expenditure taken by the Federal Assembly, both of which were also rejected.Four referendums were held in Switzerland during 1957. The first two were held on 3 March on a federal resolutions on introducing two new articles to the federal constitution; 22bis concerning civil protection and 36bis on radio and television. Both were rejected. The third and fourth were held on 24 November on introducing another article to the constitution (24 quinquies concerning nuclear power and protection from radiation) and a federal resolution on prolonging the federal breadstuffs law. Both were approved.Seven referendums were held in Switzerland during 1958. The first was held on 26 January on a popular initiative "against the abuse of economic power", concerning unfair competition, and was rejected by voters. The second was held on 11 May on the federal budget, and was approved by voters. The third and fourth were held on 6 July on introducing a new section 27ter to the constitution concerning films, and a petition to improve the road network, both of which were approved. The fifth referendum was held on 26 October on instituting a 44-hour working week, and was rejected by voters. The final two were held on 7 December on a constitutional amendment on gambling and approving a treaty with Italy on a hydroelectric power scheme on the River Spöl, with both approved.Federal elections were held in Switzerland on 25 October 1959. The Social Democratic Party and the Free Democratic Party emerged as the largest parties in the National Council, each winning 51 of the 196 seats.Two referendums were held in Switzerland in 1959. The first was held on 1 February on the introduction of women's suffrage at the federal level, but was rejected by 67% of voters. The second was held on 24 May on adding article 22bis to the federal constitution, which concerned civil protection. It was approved by 62% of voters.Two referendums were held in Switzerland in 1960. The first was held on 29 May on continuing with temporary price controls, and was approved by 77% of voters. The second was held on 4 December on economic and financial measures for the dairy farming industry, and was also approved by voters.Four referendums were held in Switzerland in 1961. The first two were held on 5 March on an amendment to the constitution regarding oil pipelines and a fuel tax to fund national roads. The constitutional amendment was approved, but the fuel tax rejected. The third referendum was held on 22 October on a popular initiative on using popular initiatives for federal-level laws, and was rejected by voters. The fourth referendum was on a federal resolution on the clock industry, and was approved by two-thirds of voters.